Welcome then to the second lesson
of the first steps in Python from the
Technological Lab for
Competitiveness.
In this lesson, we're going to see the other side
of what working with
Python and programming in general involves, which is
working with functions, a
general programming concept;
modules, how we can create
our own function libraries or
how to download and use external libraries, including
some
common libraries that are usually used
in Python;
and classes and objects, which are related
to object-oriented programming and are
essential for Python.
Let's begin, then. Up to this point,
we've
only been working using Idle
and this small text editor, which is what we use
to create
scripts that we'll open within Idle itself to
work comfortably with
Python or any other
programming language you want to use. Later, you'll need what's
called an IDE (
Integrated Development Environment),
basically a set of
software that provides a set of
tools that facilitate development. It
includes things like a code editor, which
is basically a
text editor optimized for
writing different
types of code.
Automatic build tools,
right? You can type a little
bit of a keyword, right? And
this text editor understands what
you're saying and completes it. And a
debugger, since it's a way for you to
see, like, a
general overview of all the
variables, all the functions, and everything
that's happening inside your
program.
Things like a debugger might be a
bit too complex to add now
or review now as something that's
necessary. It's a tool that
can help you if you decide to
study it.
Some people, it seemed to me,
were already working with an IDE made
for Python, right?
I thought it was PayChan, right? It's
on this list.
Another recommendation is Spider, which is an IDE
that specializes in
working with data.
And
personally, there are also other
types of distributions, as they're
called, right? They're other
versions of Python that come with
a set of libraries already pre-
downloaded and a whole system, an
environment, as we call it, already predefined
for certain purposes. For example,
Anaconda. I personally recommend Anaconda
because it also comes
integrated with
the Notebooks.  Jupiter allows you to
write Python code in blocks and
run it separately within
the same page. They use a little
trick with HTML to
execute this Python code in
blocks, and I have an example here
of how
Jupiter works. If you look,
we have a
section of code here that we
can run separately,
and it gives us a result right here within
where we're working.
Each one works independently,
and the beauty of it is that we can
make small code edits or
add small
fragments that we're interested in testing little by little. We'll
upload this later
because it's a list of errors to
fix so you can get used to it.
Perhaps some people aren't very
used to
writing code from scratch. You might find it
easier to try and
fix simple code that
someone has already written. We have examples
of varying complexity, and this will be
part of the exercises for
this class.
If you
want to download an IDE, take advantage of
this moment.
And we're going to
look at some of the exercises we assigned
last class
and solve them.
We'll solve a couple here
step by step so you can see more
or less how one thinks, how one progresses
through these
exercises, how one advances,
perhaps going back and fixing
certain things, and what the
common errors are that one sees when
writing a program,
a small part of the
program that might be
used later, and how to avoid
propagating these errors, and so on. So, I'll tell you
the most recommended ones, and
from Python and Spider,
consider also
downloading Anaconda.
So,
this is the list of exercises that I
uploaded
to the Tracker, which should have
arrived by email
in the reminder email for
yesterday's class, which should have reached
the link, I think.
And we're going to try the
classic exercise that is done in programming, which
is
programming the topic of calculating the series
of figures. We can enlarge this
so it can be read better.
So, write a Python script
that receives an integer value
n as input and returns...  Two lists for this
example. We're only going to make one.
First, all the values ​​of the
Fibonacci sequence up to n, right? Up to that value
that we're entering on the
screen, or the last value
less than n.
For example, for n equal to 15, the output should
be 1 1 2 3 5 8 13,
right? It's a sequence where each
subsequent value is equal to the sum of the two
previous values. And second,
all the prime numbers between 1 and
n, right? You can leave this for
you to develop yourselves. We
can do this within what
we already know.
So
let's go step by step. What do we
need? We need, or rather, we have, an
input and an output, right? We have to
provide a list
and receive an input. So what do we do?
First, we're going to show how
we receive an input with an input. That is,
we need to create an input to be able to
give something to the computer, right?
And we're going to put some text, for
example, "Please
enter
a value of n."
We're going to put n
in the same space,
and
this n is what the exercise tells us we
have to do with all the
values ​​of the Fibonacci sequence.  up to n
or the last value less than n,
therefore n is our limit.
So, to make it easy to remember
what the objective of this
number is for us,
we're going to store it in a variable
called Limit.
If you want to try the code, sure, if you
're not sure what you
're doing, we could see this. This
is doing what
I want it to do. I'm going to put it here in the
idl: print a value to n, for example, 5. So it
seems to be working. Let's see,
we're going to put a print statement here
with Limit so
we're sure of what's
happening. Let's run this
code
to get: less than n 55. Okay, it seems to be working.
Maybe later it will give us some kind of
strange error, like this isn't
a String or something else, so we'll
leave it there. But for now, let's move on.
Then all the values ​​of the
Fibonacci series up to n or the last value
less than n. The series is the sum of
two numbers between following numbers; it's
equal to the sum of  The two
previous values. And this has to repeat if
up to this limit, right?
Then we can use the loop that has to
end. The loop that lasts
brings me a condition, be true.
So while the result of
Fibonacci, right? Divided by
the result of Fibonacci,
is less than the limit, something has to happen.
And how did we do that? We did it with a
While loop.
We pressed enter and with that we tried.
So here we go, this is getting
super easy. So Fibonacci
is equal to
the result of a number
plus
a
previous number. Let's call this to
differentiate it:
current number plus a previous number, right?
What happens if we run this? I
enter a value of n, 5, or errors.
We haven't defined any of these
variables, right? Inside the loop,
we're saying while Fibonacci
is less than the limit, but we don't
have a value for Fibonacci,
right?
So what we do is what's
called
initializing it, right? Let's give an
initial value to this number. So we
configure it here
and we're going to say that since it's a sum, it doesn't matter, right?
Adding this
number, we're going to start with zero.
Generally, sums are initialized with
0 and products are initialized with one.
Right,
and we're going to run this program,
and we're going to have another error.
The error I told you about appeared. Right, it appears. It
says the least operation is not
supported on instances of an
integer and a
String. But what is a String? I'm not
entering any String. It says first
integer and then strings. Fibonacci is an
integer, yes.
Limit is a String, no, but limit is I'm
saving it as a number. So,
to avoid any
problems, what we're going to do is
a cast. If you remember, we
also had this error in the last class, but we
left it there to solve it
now in a more practical method. Right, we already
know. So, and now
we run it again.
Another error. This problem
is solved, and we see that in
the sequences, current number plus
previous number, the
current number is not defined. And we can
assume that, therefore, if we were to
put an initialization, we would initialize the current number.
Right, equal to
zero, the
previous number will also not be
initialized. So, it's better to
initialize both of them at once.
And
we're going to do this because it's a
sequence of numbers. The sequence was:
one night, it starts with zero, then one
plus zero, one plus one,
two  Two plus one equals three, three plus two equals
five, right? If we go 1 1 2 3
5 8 13 21 etc.
So
we have the current number, right? Which will
be 1, and a previous number in the
sequence, which is 0. We know the
sequence starts at zero with one,
so Fibonacci is
the sum of the current number plus the
previous number, and this has to be repeated
until the limit,
until this number is
less than the limit. But we have to
keep saving the results in a list;
we have to save all the results
of Fibonacci.
So we're going to create a list, which will
be our list of results,
which will be an empty list
because we're using a list, because
a list is mutable, right? We can
add whatever we want to it,
we can remove whatever we
want, and we don't have to worry
about not being able to alter some
of its contents. So we're going to create
an empty list and we're going to add
things to this list as if it were a
bucket.
So we're going to do
Fibonacci, we're going to do... Sorry, a
result,
results.dot Apple, which was the instruction
we saw to add an element
to...  List and we're going to add
the result of this sum. We're already
starting, right? To have
a program, right? We're already seeing
how we use Wild and with a condition,
right? We initialize some variables.
We're using an input
and we're going to add here outside the While loop, right?
Outside the loop, a print statement to
show us the result that we know we're going to
have inside the results variable.
And we're going to see how these
five are coming out.
And it seems like nothing is happening
because it's
repeated.
The program is currently trapped inside
a loop. Fibonacci is zero, it's
less than 5, it's less than the limit,
and what it's doing is
simply adding these two values ​​and it's
not doing absolutely anything with
them. So, Fibonacci, current number,
previous number, current number is 1,
previous number is zero, so,
figure 5 is 1, result, right?
[Music]
a,
we're going to do a result. Fibonacci is
a 1. At this moment it's filling, it
's filling the
[Music]
list of results
with ones,
right? You can see it, you can imagine it.
[Music]
current number
one, previous number
0.
So, how do we have, how are we
progressing?  In the Fibonacci sequence,
we need to find the next
number in the list. The Fibonacci sequence is the
next number in the sequence. The condition is
true: the next number in the list
is equal to the sum of the two previous numbers.
So, once we do the
sum,
we'll say
that the previous number
will be equal to the current number,
and the current number
will now be
the result of the sum. Since we're
going to the sequence, right? So, we
start with zero and one, we add them,
we have 1. So, for the next
sum, we'll take the 1, which is the
result of the previous sum, plus what
was the second number in the
previous step of the sequence, that is, one plus one.
We have two here, right?
So, for the next sum,
we'll have to add 2 and 1. 1
was the second number in the
previous sum, right? Therefore, the
current number, the previous number, becomes
the new previous number,
and the current number becomes the old
result of the sum. The result of the
sum will be 3.
To find the next value,
then we'll have to consider that the
previous number is the result of the previous sum,
and the current number, sorry, the
previous number is the...  The
old current number
and the new current number is the result
of the previous sum, right? Since the
result of the previous sum is 3,
then the new current value is 3, and
so we progress, right? We take
these two values, these two values,
these two values. If you don't
understand it as
current value and
[Music]
and previous value, maybe it's better to
simply see it as values ​​1 and 2, right?
1. We're going to make several spaces here,
one point
two, right? Just for that, right?
So how do we find the
value 3? And this is going to be equal to
Fibonacci. So we have the
result, right? Number one plus
number 2, and this is going to give us the
result of the next value. To
find 3, then what we have to
do is move this over here, and
we have again what was
our number 2.
Creating our number 2 becomes
our number one,
and what was Fibonacci becomes just our
number 2, and that's what we're
doing here.
Now
[Music]
we do the same, right? How do
we find 5? Ah, now the number 2
becomes our previous number, and the
number 3, which in the previous one
Fibonacci becomes our number 2, and so we continue with our program. We just have to say this because now what it's going to do is start up to 5. It starts with zero, up to the limit, to start with the current number plus the previous number, one. Then it's going to replace the values ​​with what it already found, paste the result of this sum, and then start again. When it starts again, the values ​​of the current and previous numbers are preserved because I already modified them. Now we're going to have a new Fibonacci value, and this is going to change it again. We're going to receive it in the file again, change it again, and it should deliver a correct result. So for n equal to 15, the output should be what you see there. We're going to run the module, and something happened. Here it is, as we say, it's shifted. The result, right? Why? Because first it's calculating the sum, adding it, and then doing the comparison. How do you solve these things? Generally, by changing the order of where we do the addition. Basically, right? For example, what happens if we put it  Here, it's going to
do exactly the same thing,
but
the beginning and the end
will change, but the operation is the
same. That's what I mean.
Now, add another value. Here's
a real example of what
Fibonacci would be. This is a hard
Fibonacci condition, right? And generally, what's
done is a pendulum at the beginning,
where the others we put this as
brute force, right?
This would be, for example, how to do the
night exercise, and we're going to
start
exercise 3. We're
just going to start it because
doing all the conditions can
get a little strange and can get
a little long to
verify, right? So, we're going to put in
the tricks that can always be
used to make this program. So,
I write a Python script that
implements the Mastermind game rule.
The objective and the game rule are the
following: the player must guess 5
characters stored in a list in the
script, right? Using clues that tell
the player how close they are to
guessing.
So, a move consists of entering
five characters separated
by commas via the keyboard, for example, this input that
we see here.
In each move, the script must  Return
a letter T for
correct characters in the correct position, a
letter f if it's the correct character for
an incorrect view, or an x ​​for the
incorrect character. Right, so
here we have an example of if
for this list of characters this
input.
This is the output we have to
wait for. The
game continues until 10
attempts are made or the player wins the
game. Here we have a condition. Right. If we want to use a While or a Forward loop, here we have the condition, and the secret list is predefined within the script. It doesn't need to be entered from the keyboard or be randomly generated. Whether the game allows allowed characters
or not is up to you. Both ways in
that program are different, and one
way to execute the command is the
command line for people who
are writing scripts separately and not
running them. Right, that is, not running them
from the IDL.
Let's start. So what
we need is more or less the same. The
difference here is that there's no limit.
Right, it's our list, which will be
our entered data. Right,
input.
And please, right, enter a list,
a list of characters,
and we're going to work with this as
characters, and we already know that we're
saving it as a character. So let's
delete this.  This cast is to prevent them from
going to the input if they want to go to Ultra,
the safe one,
then they can use a String, but it's
not necessary at this moment. In this
case,
then, we can do this in two
ways. We need this to repeat
10 times or until the player
finds the correct result,
so we can do a While loop
while a condition
is equal to true,
or we can do it with a Fork (true).
How can we do it with a Fork
for a
true value? We're going to call it a counter, and that's it.
Each and/
or being a,
at the moment what we're entering gives
exactly the same thing. We're
just using this to
test the code, yes, one by one,
line by line, to see if what we're
doing is right. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
There are 10 characters.
This is being repeated 10 times, so we know that what
we put here inside will be repeated
at least 10 times. And what
happens, for example, if the player wins on the
seventh attempt? On the seventh attempt,
we're going to put an If statement,
if and true, which is the value I gave it
here. This could  I've set a value and
I have to change this to a value,
this to a value, right? But it's like a
universal programming language
where counters are denoted with the
letter i.
This is equal to
7, that would be the eighth attempt.
So
a break, let's see, the most important thing
in the class. We've seen that break is used
to break sequences. Let's see
if it works to break the loop. It doesn't matter,
and when I get to 7, it's fulfilled.  So, I
can put a condition and a break and I'll
exit the loop.
Ah, perfect. So now we
know that
if we put an If statement with a condition and
that condition is true, I'll exit
the loop, or if the condition isn't met,
this will repeat 10 times. So now we
know we have the
basic foundation of the program. Here
we can put
f equals 7.
So we'll call it without a condition,
conditions equal to true,
and we'll start this with the condition
equal to
false, just to have
initialized. We're using an initial value,
so
in each play the script should return
a letter for each character. T is all in this,
what we've already seen about the
condition. So we have to check
this with a list that's already saved
by default. Once we have the list that we
're saving in the program,
we're going to put a list
of Victory,
which we can make a list or... We're
just going to use it to compare. We
could also do it in
[Music]
using parentheses. Right,
in a tuple
we're going to use lists because
lists are flexible and nice.
We're going to make an
a b c d
and separate each one.
So we have a list of Victoria,
we need a list of results,
right, or a list of answers,
which we're going to initialize only with
x.
Why? Because we're simply going to
assume that all the original answers are
incorrect. They could even
initialize it with nothing, they could
initialize it
with just... they could
initialize it with something that has
nothing to do with either one,
but only because that way we'll have to
see fewer cases.
And we're going to change this to maintain
a structure in the
names, an
input list, and we're going to say, "
I want to know if this is being
saved correctly." So we do
a print statement. "Show me
a
realistic list." I entered
Victoria's list,
and the answer list
is a list of characters. Ah, comma. Ah,
but there's something here. It's not
saving it as a
list. How do we do it?
Here comes the first one, right, the
first difficulty
of the program: converting this input
into a list. How do we do it? There are
several ways, really.
[Music]
Depending on what you
want to do, you can use different
tools. There are some
predefined libraries that
allow you to...  Do the homework for you, or you
can try to do the homework
yourselves, right? Just to
simplify things—not to simplify, no,
really—but to use
tools we've seen in
class,
we're going to do what would be called a
cleanup, right?
Of this input, we know that what we're
saving is a String, and
we can iterate through strings. What
happens is, so we're going to delete this
print statement, or we're going to transform it, and we're going to
do it for each item, for each element
in the input list.
Show me
the item. I want to see what happens if you try to
separate this.
Ah, okay, you're doing it. I can separate it, perfect: an 'a' with a comma, a '
b' with a comma, a 'c' with a comma, a 'd' with a
comma, and an 'e'. Perfect, that's what you're
entering, right? Step
by step, so now we're going
to save this. It's better to
save it in a space, in a
temporary variable that we won't be
interested in later because we're going to
convert this into a list, something
we can actually use.
So we're going to change this to the
name we originally had: an
input, right? Which is a single string
all joined together, right? Which are all these
numbers separated by commas?
I'm going to iterate through these elements one by one,
and I'm going to say inside the
and I'm going to say inside theFord, yes, the item, true, if the value I just unpacked is different from a comma, true, with quotes, it's different from the comma character, then, and another attempt, we're going to create, true, an input list and we're going to call it and we're going to print this item, true, only if the item is not a comma, and then when all this is finished, we're going to print the input list again. This is going to throw an error because we're trying to print an element in a list that doesn't exist. So we're going to make an empty list, true, because empty letters, and we can do things when they try to use something they haven't declared before, that is, when they try to use something that doesn't exist, Python is going to throw an error. If you create something, you can use it, and Python is going to assume what the character list is. So let's see why it's throwing an empty list. I'm entering this condition, and we're going to print, I'm in the If. It seems that it's not entering the If yet. But why are we going to print Little again in that Sport? It should be for
input. And not for input list,
if you're right,
let's do it like this, comma.
There it is, separating and entering the
child in each one,
and the result. Now it has the format we
were seeing earlier,
right?
Let's also leave the previous print statement here
so you can see it, right? As you'll
see, how it
was. And how it turned out.
Where is this input list? I deleted it.
There it is, and we don't need this anymore either.
What problem does this implementation have?
That
if we, for example, enter a
period within that string, or make a mistake, right? A
typo,
right? In
how we're
writing this, right? It's going to
save it anyway. It's not
checking anything in particular, only
if it's not a comma, saving it.
But for the moment, it works for us.
So let's leave this.
Meanwhile, for
these print statements,
the advantage of having a debugger, which is what's
put here in the
PowerPoint,
right? It's a debugger, as it's called,
is that you can have a view of
all these variables, right? Without
having to do all these print statements as
you execute the code.
But for the moment, let's do it the
old-fashioned way, right? Or brute force, and
let's put some primes.  No more, so that it
shows us on the screen
what we're doing.
So
in each play, the script must return.
Ah, so every time I have to
do
the input, every time the loop starts,
I have to do all this. So
the input
and the transformation
have to go inside the if because it has to be
executed once per
iteration.
So we're going to remove this because the
input no longer exists here,
and we're going to put this input here
too.
Why? Because every time
we run the program,
we need to
start with an empty list. In fact,
first we're going to leave it here so
we can see what happens,
or an intentional problem
here.
Right, these are the print statements I had
previously. Right, the little
stars here execute.
First of all, it sets the condition
to false, and now we enter the loop. What
happens then? I do a, like, like, like again,
and again, etc., etc.
We're going to interrupt this
and put this print statement here now
so it helps us. Okay,
very good, and a different list.
That's what I wanted you to see. If you
notice, we're not initializing.
So if we leave a program
like this, every time we
add a new entry, it will
add it to the previous list
instead of making a new comparison.
So what I'm going to do is
tell it that every time you start
making a new attempt, I want you to leave
this list blank.
Let's close this.
Remember, to close the
brute force, press Ctrl+C in the console.
Okay,
there. Yes, every time I'm entering a
new combination
of 5 characters, it's
saving it separately, right?
So we already have the first part of the
program, the problem solved,
right? We're entering five
comma-separated values, and when I do that, it
converts them into a list. Now we have to
compare this list, right?
With Victoria's list.
We have to replace this, right? We're going to
continue with Victoria's list.
So we're going to do...
How can we do this? Since we know that
each element has five lists, we
can do it with, for example, a
J because we're already using it,
or we simply put elements
in a Range
5 because we know we have to repeat
them five times.
Another If:
if
the list with the entry, right? In the
element in that space,
is equal
To Victoria's list
in that same space,
right?
So
what happens if both are the same?
A letter 'f' if it's the correct character,
a letter 'T' if it's the
correct character but in the
correct position. So if both are the
same,
then
let's make the answer list
in the same position that we call
element
equal
to the letter 'a'
for each element in the range. Right,
let's see if the entry edge is
equal, right? It gives so much, so much, etc.,
etc.
Better yet, perhaps elements
we could call it index or position,
right? In a range of five positions
from position 0 to position 4,
and we already saw that this is how we traverse
a
list. So let's call
this position so later we can
remember what's happening,
and I think you can print the answer list for me.
I want you to print it here after
making this comparison. I want you to
print it here.
So
let's compare. You see what happens if
we put 'abcde'? It
changes them all to 't'. Okay, it seems that
if they are all good, it's
doing it right.
What happens then if
I do more 'b's with more 'd's, comma 'u'
too, since that's what's happening.  It's
printing it again and it's not re-
entering the
condition. So this way of doing the
Debut isn't working for me. I have to open the
program again because it's not
working because the program is
designed so that once the
victory is achieved, that is, all the elements are correct, the program
exits, but I haven't verified
that victory condition yet.
So let's see, a, b, c,
d, we've said
the first four are correct and the
last one is correct, so it's in an x.
Perfect, so now I see that the
first condition is met and we
can continue.
We have the
victory condition, we know that if all are
correct, then
the program should exit.
Couldn't we make a second part
of the program
that is
responsible for verifying that
this condition is met after
each attempt? I want you to see
for each element. I do
n't remember if Python comes with it
by default; it hasn't been used for a while.
So let's see
if
the comparison of elements in
Python comes
by default or not. Let's find out right
now. If the
answer list and two things came out that
can be experimented with  Python
saves when I told you that you,
Python, ASSUMES certain things. Let's see
if it ASSUMES this. If not, we simply have to
do it manually.
If lists of answers,
right? The one that isn't saving the
results
of our game
is equal
to this list,
which is only tests. I want you to do
a break.
So, a comma b comma c comma d comma u, it
should ask me again. If it
asks me again, a comma b comma c comma d
comma
e, and it should exit. It
exited. Perfect. So this
condition works. If I tell Python, "
Take one list and take another list, even if they are
more lists, they contain the same
elements, even if they are marbles, they are equal," I didn't have
to declare anything. I didn't have to do
a comparison of...
How do you say
element-to-element? Right? And maybe
put a counter. If the counter is 5, it
means there are five
equal results. We simply say, "100
marbles are equal, right?" This thing that you
have to put on the left is
equal to this thing that I'm putting on
the right; they are equal. So it meets
the condition,
and we'll leave it here because
we have to pass the contents of this
class. But
how do they continue from now on? How do they
continue?  With this, if you remember, the
point here is that now you go to what would be
the Else if it is true that
both are equal, right? The list of the
is in position and is equal to the
list
of Victoria in the free Victoria list
that we are comparing in the same
position. So it is a
correct letter in
a correct position and that is
verified with a T.
Then what you have to do is
verify if the element
is the input element
in position
exists in the Victoria list. It
is an elif.
Another condition, right?
That means that it exists but that it
is in an incorrect position
and that would be
the hole. Another case, right? If it is
not a letter in the correct position
and it is not a correct letter in the incorrect position,
then the letter is simply not in
the list.
Therefore, that would say inside and
would be to
replace, right? List answers,
list answer in that position would be to
replace it with an x
and here would be to
replace it with an F. We have said a
correct character error by
incorrect character error, right? And with that you
basically have the three big parts of the
program. What would be missing, right? Would be to
do only this part.
Why was I interested in us experiencing
this?  This exercise, at least up to this
point, is useful because if you look at this whole section
of code, we have parts
that are actually performing a
single task and aren't making it look
bulkier. Perhaps if we
wrote this more
simply,
or perhaps we could do it in fewer
lines, it would
look a bit more organized. So
much fork inside, like joining inside a
fork, quotes here, quotes there,
etc., I'm
seeing this. The
more complex this becomes, the more complicated it gets,
especially because perhaps to do this
comparison, they have to
create another
condition back here, right, for each
position. So maybe many
for each position, right, right, if it's true
that it's here, then I have to
do another ifa here, or perhaps if this happens,
or in any other case, perhaps I have to
do a fork, or perhaps there's a
library that does this work for me.
Right, let's see if this exists. Perhaps I
could convert this into a set that
joins the two lists and leave it in a set.
But that might not help me. Anyway,
perhaps it would be better if we could
simply create a block of text,
right, a block of code, and we
just...  Let's arrange the result, and
for that
in Python, and in any programming language,
we use functions. What's
popping up here is what
we call error handling in
Python. It's a super simple instruction:
two clauses, `tray` (two
dots) and `do`. They
always go together; they're basically sisters.
And what does this code do? It tells
Python to
execute everything inside `try`.
And if there's an error, then it
cancels what you're doing and
does what's here. So what we're
telling it is:
try this; if it doesn't work, try this.
Note that this only works for
errors that cause the
program to crash. It's not like, for example,
errors such as, "I was expecting to
enter
five values ​​and I
received four." That's when, if you want to
avoid certain things, there's a part of the code
that's perhaps essential for your
program to work. So, generally, what you
do is put inside a `trail`, like: `
try to do this; if this fails,
then do this other thing`. This
code has a third part,
this syntax that not
many people use,
which is the `final`. And what does the `final` do?
It says that after you execute `
tray`, if you're successful, it executes the `final`.
Also, if you're unsuccessful and it
throws an error, then
execute what's inside the Excel file, and
also execute the end. I don't know, many
people simply don't put the end; they
just put it there. They're programming;
they put
the continuation of the code right there if it's
something I want to
execute. Anyway,
if you look here in the example, in the `
except`, you see
a keyword, which is the name of an
error. When going back,
that error name is the name of the
error that's here: `name
error`. `name error` is the
error that a variable is not
defined. So what I'm
telling it is, if the `name error` exception appears,
then it does this. It's
not necessary to
put an error here.
You can also put more than
one `except`. You can put `
except name error`. Then it does this: `
except type error`. `error` (type error) (colon).
If you have a
name error, then it does this. If you have a type error,
then it does this. And you
can simply put `except` (
colon), and it says in case of any other
error, it does this. And that's very similar to
how we did it with `if`. This
would be equivalent to saying `if error is
equal to name error` (colon). This: `if error
is equal to`
Pipe error two colons means something else except would be els in case in anything else the colons show this an unknown error for example let's create a tool so that you can [Music] a tool so that you can help yourselves what is called catching errors the interface that you are seeing here a small parenthesis the interface that you are seeing here is of the Spider it is a python ID that is the one I mentioned at the beginning but OK let's go back to what I wanted to see what for me is important functions in python what is a function a function is a code structure that is executed when it is called in the call you can enter information as known parameters As input parameters This is how we implement modularity in python let's make our program much better let's open a new file or save this and let's save it as functions as I declare a function in the keyword of a name let's take this out here so you can see any name respecting it is not a necessary condition it's like a good habit of  Python can be written
in another way. Some people, for
example, write what's called camel
case, which is when
words are separated by a
capital letter.
Python likes it that way. I
define it that way
and
do whatever I want
this block of code to do. What
happens if I execute this?
Nothing, nothing,
because this block of code
is defined. I'm telling Python
to... Now, a function that will be
called my function. Let's see
immediately what
this parenthesis means:
when it's called, it will show me this output.
So, let's see how we
call a function.
We simply write its name.
See, I'm calling what's called
calling the function.
And the beauty of this is that we can
put it inside an if statement, for example, with
conditions. And the
condition here is: if
the condition is true, then
my function.
Just the name, without the colon,
without the DF.
There, we're going to say that the condition
will first be equal to false,
and this block of code isn't entering,
right?
And so now we're going to say that it's
true so that it
enters...
And it's doing it perfectly.
This is the most basic form of a
function. A function is used to
perform a specific task, to
do something and deliver a specific result. You're starting to
understand.
A function can also have a
parameter, which is what this
parenthesis here is for. What is a
parameter? A
parameter is the name of the
variable that I'm going to work with inside
the function and that I can pass
as an argument. What does this mean?
So we change this: "
Hello,
my name is a colon
and with strings, right?" As we've seen,
a sum.
The name,
this name, will come here
inside the function.
This has to be equal to this because
this is the name of the variable. What we
're telling it is that whatever is
written in parentheses, you're going to
store it in this variable
called "name,"
and then you operate with that, right?
You operate with
this, right? What you want it to do... I don't know what it is. How do
I call
this? If I try now to call my
function
with parentheses,
what happens is that it's saying
we need an argument called "
name" that's in the function. We're not
receiving anything. Ah, okay, sorry.
Although a...  A certain parameter, a
string, a String,
there yes, and then the program takes what's
here, basically
replaces it here, and since it replaces it here, it
also replaces it here. That's what
the problem is basically doing.
And then I can call this
function
with another parameter,
and the program, the function, forgets what it
had previously and
executes it again with this. Another
condition: the function only exists
within the program when you
call it. At any other time, it's as if
the code block isn't
there,
and it ceases to exist when it fulfills its condition, when it
returns something, or when all its lines
of code are completed. It forgets all the
variables that were entered. We
can also
enter what's
called a
default variable if we want it to have
a value anyway.
So show us what I'm going to
put here. So we're telling it it's going to
be a name that will be equal to
anonymous,
and we're going to make another call to my
function
without any arguments. You see?
So if I enter
Daniel as an argument, then it will
store it here.
If I enter Andrés as an argument, it
will replace it and show it here.
Nothing. So it's not going to
replace. This is going to take this
default initial value
and replace it. Here,
a function can accept more than one
argument, for
example, first and last name.
This is the crudest way there is to
do strings, and Prince in Python, everywhere you go, they're going to
tell you that this is wrong, and it is. It's
super ugly and not used, but it serves to
illustrate, right, and to see
more clearly what we're
doing.
The correct way is to use what's
called string formatting,
so that you're
not left with any doubt. Right, you
put, for example, an F,
and we're telling it that whatever
comes in here respects a format.
So, "Hello,
my name is..." and how do we do it?
What does this format mean?
We can put the
variable names in square brackets.
So this
is the equivalent of all this. This
is the equivalent of all this,
basically.
Or you can also use
other syntax that goes with square brackets,
and a dot is used. `format`, and
this, you see, is a method here
where you can put your
variables and other things. There are
several ways to do this, which are more...
More elegant and correct,
but for now we'll
work with this because it works and it looks like it's in
order, showing what's
happening.
So now it's telling me
this function has two arguments.
Where is the second one? We
enter it, also separated by a
comma,
and we're going to delete my function because we
're not working without
arguments right now.
How does the computer know what's which in
order? The first argument goes with the
first one
in the document, the second with the second, and
if there were a third, it would go with the
third, and if there were a fourth, it would go with the
fourth, and so on.
This is mainly put here so you can
see that it's like an
example. The Python program doesn't
care about what you're
entering as a variable. This is mainly
a clarification for people who
are used to another
programming language that might have to
enter lists of things like pointers or
memory addresses or other
slightly stranger things. In Python, we
can enter a list as an
argument and it doesn't care much. In
fact, it doesn't care at all.
We're a list,
but "
apple" and "grape,"
and I enter the list here
as a parameter. It's
enough to concatenate a list.
And it's printing what I told it to print, right? Let's see this within the list, maybe within the function, which you already have to iterate through, and you can do whatever you want here. This is a block of code just as you were writing it before, as we were writing it here. But within this little block of code, we're missing a function, which is, in my opinion, the most important part of a function: the return value. We might want a function to perform an operation and give us a result, but not necessarily to display the result on the screen. Perhaps we want to do something with that number. Maybe the operation we're doing is very complex, or there are many operations with many conditions, and we're only interested in having the result. So what do we do? We can do something here, for example, with the number one and the number two, and we're going to get a result that will be equal to the sum of number one plus number two. And then, I think, man, it's a return value of the result, since what this function will do is wait for two values, a value in number one and number two, and it will store the result of the sum in a variable called result.  And
then it's going to give me that result. I'm going to
go to my function
and we're going to give it 2 as the value and
as the argument. Sorry,
and we're back to the same thing, the one that is
n't doing anything. That's because
the program isn't giving you a
result, right? Okay, perfect. The
result of this is 5. This only gives me,
sorry, the 7 again,
but I'm not doing anything with it.
What happened? For example,
if I print
the 30 results, it's working,
and I can do an operation with this.
My function,
let's say by 10,
and we already know that doesn't give anything back.
So let's print
another operation.
Perfectly, right? I can take the
result of this function. It's
executing when I write
the function name. What it's
doing is executing this block of
code with the values ​​I gave it, and
then I can do whatever
I want with that. And it's loading it
as a response. I can also
make it bring me a
set of things as a response, right? Like a tuple,
two and seven. We're doing that. I mean, 2 and 5,
and it perfectly gives me the
results of both numbers.
A list,
if I'm interested, then continue
modifying this, right, etc.,
etc.
What practices do you use? This, for
example, means that I can now come back to the
code I was writing here,
and I can now start what's called
modularizing, start separating parts of the
code to make it a
little smaller. So, I have here,
right, this mini block of code that
takes a list and
converts it into a... Sorry, it takes a
string of characters
and saves all the characters that
aren't commas separately. That
could perfectly be a function. So, we're going to
make a function
that will be called...
to define the function,
separate
by
commas,
which receives as an argument a list,
which is the list that I'm going to separate, that
is, sorry, a string, right, a phrase,
a
String. I can't use the word String
because it's
a defined word, right, avoid
using it. I'm going to receive a string or a
word or a phrase,
and what I think you'll do with this, with
this phrase, is
enter it here.
We're going to change "
phrase," we're going to change this to a name,
which will be this.
Return...
this return... we're not going to declare it here
without a list. Return... it will cease to exist
when
each time  We call the
function to finish executing if it's going to
finish
working, and when you finish doing
all this, we exit the `
if` statement and the `ford` statement. We're going to
tell it to
create a list of inputs and
delete this. Okay, `list of inputs`
is a normal variable; it doesn't matter what it
stores as a
result of executing the function. The
input
will be the result of
separating by commas
[Music] whatever
we're entering,
right?
And this part of the code
won't work. So we're going to
comment it out.
Let's see what happens,
and the program runs normally
as we said. What I did here
is called commenting out a line,
and what it does is write a line
that, for your eyes,
the program simply ignores what's happening
here in
execution mode. Basically, it
ignores as if nothing exists what's
after this line, but it's there so
you can leave yourselves a
message, right? Maybe
in a certain function
that separates
the input
by commas, it does
n't care about anything else, right? Maybe
you want to...
To come back and fix this, right, fix it a little more, and maybe at first glance, many times the codes don't make sense. A small reminder of what their function does helps a lot. So we have this condition, right, that we had to make it so that when this is true, then, when this is true, then, no people, that it replaces the value in the response list with an F. But maybe it's not like the previous one. So now what you could do, for example, let's leave these comments. You already know what a comment is, a definition, right, that will say, for example, let's call it "verify if it exists," and this might receive a list or a character and a list, right, and this might be, for example, it could be a for loop, d element in list, that does a certain block of code, right, the checks. And if that condition is true, and if that is met, then we put, for example, for each element in list, If, right, whatever it is that you are checking [Music], If condition, and I can now do a return, and I'm telling it to return true, right, the variable true, and if not, right, I'm checking if it is true, all the iterations that  I can use Ford,
so I graduated with a false,
and here's the elif, and this condition exists
in the "victories" list. I
can then simply
replace it with
this position
because the position I'm checking,
so I
check if it exists.
And I'll probably input
what's in the input list at that
position, which are just characters. If you
remember, this will return what's
in characters at that position,
the "victories" list, which is the list where
I'm comparing the entire list.
And perfect, that's it, because this will
return true if it exists and
false if it doesn't.
And that's enough. It's like I'm
taking this whole piece of
code and replacing it here, and
with that, I managed to separate my
verification. I can do it somewhere else.
When I call Python, it
cares, it's going to do the calculations. It's going to
pause what it was doing, it's going to
solve the function and it's going to give me
the result. And here it's like I would
have simply put a true or a
false. Do you
understand?
That's the biggest advantage you'll
have with
functions,
and that's how you can do different things.
You can expand on this as much as you
want. Maybe you can do this. I do
n't know. Maybe you can put all of this
inside another function.
Maybe you don't want to use this method.
Maybe you would have preferred to use
brute force, comparing element
by element to see if they are all true, and you
could have made another function
to
verify Victoria. And if
verifying Victoria is true, then everything is
true, and you can exit. I'm
going to... I don't know if I've told you, but I'm
also going to add this
[Music]
to the list of exercises so you
can work on it and
finish it.
I'm going to save it.
That's the beauty of it, and that's the
power of functions.
Many times, what I was saying
when I was checking here is that I know this can be done.
I knew this
could be done in Python; I had done it
before, but I couldn't remember if it
came pre-
installed in
Python or if it was part of an
external library or some external function.
You can basically download
functions from the internet in what are
called libraries or packages or modules,
like you do if you are using
Python in
[Music]
brute force.  By "brute force," I mean
you need to open a command line and
run the `pip` command. `
pip` is like a
package manager; that's what it's called. You
type `pip` and a
package you're interested in.
Downloading a certain package: `pip install`. I'm
not going to do that because I don't
necessarily want to install packages
on this
computer. But if you run `
enter`, then the program simply
has `pip` installed, meaning `
pip` registered here, which won't run.
Oh, I wasn't sure, teacher, that I already had it
installed, I already had the kernel installed.
But the basic idea is that it downloads a
library of packages that you
can then download and use,
as we'll see immediately.
These are some libraries that are
commonly used for
working with
[Music],
data,
and
[Music],
generally as data in general,
certain new functions,
mathematical functions, statistics,
numbers, working with matrices, right?
Maybe you want to do something to
work with photos, and there are libraries for
basically any kind of thing
that
someone has written. These are
codes written by other people.
Larger libraries have
more and more complex functions.  It's true that they
allow you to do more and more things
much more easily.
Some are basically like a
new set of tools that you have to
learn, but if you learn them,
then they come with enormous
new potential that you can use within
your Python code. And some are
simply like functions that
you might need to do
one or two specific tasks
more quickly, not having to
implement a part of the
PIITO philosophy, right? It's not having to reinvent
the wheel; you don't have to redo
something that's already been done. Perhaps
these are like the three
biggest ones used to do what's
called working with data in PIITO. It's
a Python extension that adds better
support for vectors, right? That is, you do
n't necessarily have to work
with lists and tuples anymore, treating them
as if they were
vectors. And perhaps implementing
certain things isn't like
the distance from one point to another, right?
Perhaps you have two lists, one list
represents a position x, comma, and the other
list represents another position x, comma, and
you want to see the distance between them,
then you have to see x squared
plus y squared plus the square root of
that, right?  So, the sum and the
square root, and why better? Simply
take NumPy, generate two types of
vectors,
and then use a function that comes
with NumPy, which allows you to find
the distance between these two points.
This new data type, which
in a pib brings
more... Live is a library for
generating graphs from data
contained in lists or arrays in the
Python programming language, and its
mathematical extension,
Battle Live, comes with a list of
functions where you input,
for example, to
create bar graphs with certain
parameters, and it creates and displays a
bar graph on the screen
with the information you
entered. And Pandas,
which is an extension of... on a floor,
so like a...
these are built one on top of the other, which
offers better support for
more complex data structures,
manipulating numerical tables and series.
A great example, for example, of
the use of NumPy is being able to work with
matrices, order
tables like Excel tables. They
basically have what would be like
the equivalent of an Excel table
incorporated within Python. Perhaps you can't
see it in all its...  It's
splendor, but they can do things
like name columns,
name rows, or save
data types, change them, and use all sorts
of tools. It's true that pandas has tools
for working with large volumes of
data.
So, for example, if you wanted to
install NumPy, you open your command line and type `
pip install`. This is so that it
finishes running
the programs you're using. For example, to
run Manaconda or Spider, there are
usually package managers,
which are basically a visual interface
where you can drag and
drop through a menu and click and
download a package. It's the same
as how we work with these
things that we download.
We download
using what's called
the `import` instruction.
When we go to some code,
for example, in my example script,
I'm going to do an `import`
and import my
functions. I
put the name of this one, this other one, this other one,
this other one, this other
Python file that's in the same
path. They're
both there, the functions
and examples. They're both there,
and now I can use the functions
I created in another block of code. Here, I do
n't know if I  I'd like, for example, to do
a print statement.
How do I do that?
I write the code name, that is, the
name of the other code block,
a period, and the name of whatever
I'm calling. It could be a variable, a
function, or a
class. In this case, I want to call my
function, `my
function`,
and `my function` takes two periods and numbers.
I'm going to close this so there's no
doubt.
And if you notice, it's executing because it's
not executing twice. That's what
functions do. The function
also prints. Right, there was also a
print statement hidden somewhere,
but if you notice, I'm calling the
function that's somewhere else.
Nowhere in this part of the
code
is it declared.
My function
is in another Python file. And that's how
you also call
external libraries, the libraries you
download. For example, if I wanted to
go back... I wanted to do something with NumPy, it would
simply be `impropi`.
And now, with that, I can use
all the functions of `
impropi` or `pandas`, for example.
And then I have, I don't know, `
pandas.datasets`.  I also
do all my weird things
that I want to do with my module,
with my library that I just
imported.
Some things that can be done, as an
extra with the imports
[Music]. I
can give it a nickname, maybe I don't
want to have one. Maybe my
functions file has many,
many subfunctions, many things
that I can do in it. So what I
do is simply tell it,
I want to give it the nickname F,
and now Python tells me, "Ah, ok. Perfect."
So every time you write F, I'll
understand that you're referring to
this function or this library of
functions that you're importing. And
the most common example,
which is almost customary at this
point, is that you'll see on the internet that
when someone wants to learn to use,
for example, NumPy, and they see
NumPy examples, they'll see things like `import
as np` in NumPy, and then inside the
program they can see `npe.dot` all the time.
To show you that you can do more than
one thing, you
can also
import specific things from
those libraries.
And that's done with a different type of
naming convention: `from` followed by the
package name, `
import`, and then whatever you want to import.
This allows you to use it as if it were
native; you
no longer have to use functions because what I
'm saying is that it
imports this particular function.
Or perhaps I simply want to bring in all
the variables I
declared, all the functions I
declared, everything, and I don't want to have to
write `FN` or `
library function` or any other nickname
I might want to give it. We
simply use an asterisk
with that, saying that this
package brings in absolutely everything
there, and you can use it in your code
natively as if it had always been
there. This would be the closest
equivalent to opening another
file, copying all the content there,
and pasting it here.
Here I skipped something that isn't really
a detail, but if you want to know, there's
the `dir` instruction,
which will show you the environment you're
working in. And here you'll see
certain functions
written with double underscores, which
are Python's native functions
and variables.  Native Python functions and variables: When you want to create your own functions and variables, especially in [Music], as it's called in classes [Music], be careful not to use the double underscore because you'll be replacing functions that are already native to Python. It's best to avoid it unless that's your intention, right? The intention is to replace the behavior of some native Python function. And as you can see in the example at the end, you see the module, right? That you also have downloaded, right? And you can work within your code. This is also more or less... no, it hasn't advanced much, really, but it's more of a programming trick than a Python functionality itself, which is what's called recursive programming. The essence of recursive programming is a type of iteration, but it's not a loop. What I'm saying is what I'm doing is creating a function that calls itself. You can call other functions in functions; there's nothing stopping you. And a function can call itself, as you see in the example here.  For
example, the example is called `recursion
number`.
What does this mean? It's a function
called `recursion` with an
arbitrary name, and it's receiving
a number (a
colon) as a parameter. It has a structure
that isn't its own. If you look closely, it's not
a syntax per se. The syntax is that
of a `uniif` function with a
return value. It's a common,
everyday syntax. It's not something
exposed to brute force. I
'm telling Python recursive, "
This is my condition, and this is my
operation." I'm not doing what I
'm doing; I'm
simply saying it. This is how you can
implement a recursive function.
You need a base case, something that will always
eventually be
fulfilled,
and it's like the last step of the
operation. We won't go into too much
detail, but so you know it exists, that you
can do this. Maybe someone will be
interested in studying this and using it for
some of their operations. I'm
going to find a sum. The
sum will be equal to the value plus the
result of the operation, the result
of the same function minus one.
And then I want you to return the sum,
but how do I add
the number? I'm inputting the
number 6.
So I go to the function 6. 6 is less than or
equal to 1, so I don't
go up. So I add 6 plus
[Music],
the result of recursion
plus
the number minus one plus the function, the
same function with the number minus one. So, extremely,
6 plus the result of
this. Okay, it's strange, I still don't have the
result of the first one, but Python listens,
Python obeys. Remember, as I
told you, a very obedient snake, but one that doesn't
assume anything. I do
n't understand what you're telling me,
but I'm going to do it. Okay, so I add 6
plus the result of the number minus one
plus the result of the operation, right,
of the same function
minus one. So I come here now,
the number is 5. 6 - 1, 5 is less than or equal
to 1, right? So I
add the number,
which would be, therefore, now five plus
again the result of the operation.
So, I
was already getting kind of strange, I know the result of
the previous operation was
[Music],
five plus the result of the result of
the function again, and so it will continue
until we get to where the number is now, right, it's
4, and it will solve the
operation for four, so the sum will be
be equal to four plus this
then three plus these two plus this
until it reaches one, right, until it
reaches here, the 2 resource, the number equals
2. Okay, so
two plus recursion, number minus 1, 1, I
run again, now number is 1,
the case is 1, yes. Although, very good, the
function ends here. Perfect, so
this comes, pop, and kicks the previous one and I
deliver the result. Hey, you who
asked me for the result of the function
with the 2, here I have the result, it's
1, perfect. Now I can continue, two plus one,
three, print the sum 3
and return, kick up, Pop, the
result of the sum 3, the function returns to
when the function had the value 3,
when number had the value 3. Hey, I have the
result of the
recursion operation, what is it worth? It's 3, perfect,
show it to me on the screen, three plus three,
six,
and it returns, right, the 6, and goes back to
when the value was 4 and the same. Hey,
I have the result of the operation
that you asked me for, the operation that
called itself, yes, what is
6 worth? Perfect,
and what value do I have now? Here, here I
had the value 44  + 6 10 and so on, 5
plus the result, right, 10 until we get
the final result.
It's a rather convoluted way of doing
things, but
to show you that it can be done, perhaps
as a method to be careful with, or
perhaps as a method you can use
elegantly. A good exercise you could
try would be, for example,
implementing the Fibonacci sequence
in this way, but it's just an
open-ended exercise, right, in case you want to challenge yourselves,
challenge your feelings about
programming and functions. You can
try something recursive.
What a recursive function needs is a
name, an input parameter, and it absolutely
needs a
termination condition because otherwise you'll just have
a function that runs
eternally until it consumes all
the memory and the program crashes. And let
the computer
[Music]
and inside the `els` you put the condition,
true, that is, what you want
the function to do, and eventually, true, and you
call the function again,
but with a small change in
the argument so that it
slowly approaches the final result,
right, and eventually returns the
result when it finishes executing.
Let's see, then, what a class of  Objects and
attributes: These PowerPoints were
made for a more or less intermediate level.
So there are
things here in the PowerPoint we're going
to upload that we won't
see now as content per se, but they'll be
here if you want to
study them, since it's about how to do the things I'm
going to mention. I'm going
to mention them so you know what
exists. And yes, it's important that you know
about
classes.
In the course introduction, we talked about
how Python is an object-oriented language. What
we're doing so far
is what's called
sequential segmented programming, or
many other forms, where each
instruction
solves problems one by one. We're
breaking them down into smaller problems
and executing them line by line,
obtaining a result that we're
working on
immediately.
Object-oriented programming
works in a more abstract way; it
works with something we call a class and
something we call an object.
A class is the
abstract representation of
some element that you want to
model
[Music].
The object is an instance of the class and
represents a real object,
which is what I mean.  For the concept
of a book, a book has a
title, a
year it was
written, and, for example, an author.
The concept of a book already has those three
things.
Perhaps a diary also has
those three elements, and a diary
can also be a book. Perhaps a
textbook also has these three elements,
but the broader concept is
the concept of a book.
All things that are books have
these three elements that we
can identify.
So that's what we want to
model, and that's the class we
create to model a book. We
create a class that we'll call "
book," and then
the object of this class represents the
actual book, represents this book. Okay,
this book that has this title, right,
and was written in this year and has this
author, right. I'm referring to this book, for
example, "
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" by
Jules Verne,
right, he didn't deceive us, it was written, but I'm
referring to this book, to this particular thing.
That's the difference between a
class and an object. The class is the
abstract method, the thought, the concept,
the idea of ​​this thing that
we want to model, which can be
whatever you want.  It can be something concrete like a book, a car, or a glass, or it can be something more abstract like a list, or in the same way, a list, or an order, or I don't know yet, a mathematical operation, perhaps a mathematical element. I mean a class, variables that have the name of attributes within a function, that is, within a class, and functions that have the name of methods. To access both attributes and methods, the dot syntax is used. If you remember, we're going to close this. When we have a list, we're going to create a list here, and then I'm going to call it an empty list, right? And what I do is I type `list`, press `list`, I type a dot. If you notice, if I left `append` by itself, it barely looks like a function because it goes with a list, with `append`. Why? Because at the moment I do this, I'm telling Python that Python has a class, a concept of a list, which was based perhaps on the classic concept of a list, as a list of things that I write. So Python has a class called `list`, and when I do this and press enter, I'm creating an object.  It's
called a list, but let's
call it something else,
let's call it bar.
Right, there's
the class List, the concept of a list,
and when I
make this call, I'm telling
Python to create an object of the List class,
and this object will be called bar. Okay, so
now bar is something concrete. Bar is
n't just an idea of ​​a list; bar is a list.
And the List class has the append method; it
has a function that only works
with lists. It already
belongs to this class.
That means a method
belongs to this class,
and I can work with it. So, like bar, I can
append to lists, and
now bar is a list. I
can make bar into paper,
and here I add an element. Right,
that's what's happening behind the
scenes. Basically, there's a class. I
give it that class, it's initialized—what's it
called?—and I
call a method that belongs to that
class, that only works for it. It also
works for objects of that
class. It's
more than just encapsulating variables and
functions, right? Because we already have a
way to encapsulate blocks of code. We have
here
how to separate your code and be able to
execute it whenever we want.
And it's more than just simply taking
things as packages.  And changing the
name of variable to
attribute and function to method.
The use of classes and
object-oriented programming is based on a change
in the way we
work with programming.
Perhaps, for example, to model a
library and find things like
year matches and things like that, we don't have to
search a list of years and do
a Ford search and so on,
but we
can, for example, create a list, that
is, a key, a class, Library, which has
as an attribute a book, which is
another class, and the Book class has
attributes name, date, and author, and it has
methods. For example, with a book, I can
open it, I can close it, I can
remember what page it is on,
perhaps, or something more abstract: I can
save it, I can turn it face up, I
can turn it face down.
The example that I like to give
for the concept of classes and
modules and other things is that of a car,
for example, an automobile, right? Because
a van is an automobile, can I
really? Is a truck an automobile? Yes. Well,
a personal vehicle, right? Is a car an automobile?
Yes.
Is a wheelbarrow an automobile? I don't know.
How do we know? Let's give
this class, Car, a name. So, an
automobile class, for example. What does
an automobile have?
A car has a certain engine, which will have a certain model. So, one attribute of cars is that cars have an engine. Cars also have wheels, a certain number of wheels. Cars have doors, they have seats, and all of that is an attribute. These are things that describe this class, this concept of a vehicle. They have a fuel limit, they have, I don't know, a mileage. They have things that define them as vehicles. So, is a wheelbarrow a vehicle? Most likely not, because it doesn't have an engine, it doesn't have seats, it doesn't have doors. No, it's not a vehicle. And a vehicle also has functions, it has things that a vehicle can do with its attributes. The doors can be opened and closed, the engine can be started and turned off, the vehicle can move forward or the vehicle can move backward. Those would be methods of the Vehicle class. So, what I would generate, for example, in a Vehicle class, is a function. Define it with the same `alteref`: `Def move`. And we have a `movement`, and we do the logic of what represents the car moving forward. Perhaps `next position` is equal to `position` plus one, or something like that. That's the abstract part of what a class is. What is the practical part of how a class is defined?  The structure of a class: So a
class has a name. We
define it in Python using...
Let's open it again.
Let's open
the functions section.
I use the keyword `class`. Just like a
function, I give it a name. Just
like function names
are usually written as `function name`,
classes are usually written
with uppercase letters and the first
word in lowercase, and each word that
comes separated, right? It starts with
an uppercase letter as well.
My class, without parentheses in this
case,
has
a constructor,
attributes, and methods.
So this is... This is syntax.
Let's see what this means. `
value`: This value that I'm marking here
is what's known as an attribute; it's
a characteristic of this class.
Okay,
this
is what's called the constructor.
When I call... When I call this later,
and I'm going to create an object
that will be equal to
my class, as if it were a function,
what the program will do is go to
my class
and try to execute its constructor.
What is the constructor? The
constructor is what, as it's called,
builds this class. Right? It's the
first line of text that is executed
to give existence
to this object that I'm creating. So...
What I'm saying is,
let's see what this `self` means. It
receives a value
and assigns it
to a variable called `value`.
This could be something else. This could be
a variable.
We'll use different names.
This is the name of the attribute, `
name`, `
tribute`,
and whatever you want.
And this is the
syntax. It's something necessary so that
the program doesn't
always understand the first value of
the methods and attributes. In
this case, the constructor
is the variable that calls itself.
The function is basically
entering itself by name, and it
has to be there. By
convention, it's called `self`.
While it's consistent,
you can call it something else, but it will
work. But use `self`. Get
used to using `cell` because there's a
little more self-explanatory
than that. The meaning is "self." That
's an
initiator. When I run my class,
what I'm going to execute will do these
things. And remember when I mentioned
the double underscores, don't
use them unless you intend to
replace a native Python function.
And what I'm doing  Here's
precisely that: I'm replacing the
initialize function with a function of my own
that I'm writing for myself,
my class.
Once I create an instance of my
object—that is, an object
of my class—I have my object. I
work with the object separately; I don't
use parentheses again in my class.
So, if I want to access, for example,
the value attribute that I
declared here, I go to `object`,
type a period, and the name of the attribute,
and this returns the value. It's like there's
a rumble here,
basically.
And with this, I can work with it however I want. I
can
also replace the value of
my object. Now, I want it to be 10. I
initially set it to 5. Now I want it to be
10. I
can do that,
and you can delete object attributes
using the `del` command.
If I go and do a `del` on the
object, I basically destroy it.
That's the most essential part of
a class. I'm missing one thing here, which is
methods. You can create functions within a
function. Sorry, within a class, you
can create functions
without using the double underscore.
You can simply...  Let's say a
function
displays the
value it
receives as `self`, which is true.
What I want this function to do
is print `
self.point.value`.
Let's see... then
let's delete this.
Notice nothing is happening because
I'm simply creating an object, and I'm
generating attribute
1. Let's print this object.
I'm assigning the value 5, right? Let's
print this object,
and it's showing me something strange
here: double underscores, Main.dot,
my class, object, at such-and-such memory address. It's confusing.
That's because, of course,
object is an instance of
a class I created; it's a somewhat
abstract concept. If I want to work
with the things I have in object, I have to
call those elements. So, for
example,
let's call the value I initialized
as 5.
There you go. And what happens then? For example,
if I'm going to delete this print statement and
call the method, and I'm going to say
object.dot, execute.
Look, they come with a mini-execution here:
Show value,
the same, 5. Why? Because the method
I have here is saying, "Show me what's
in value." And notice the
self is here; you're going to use it all the
time within your method. If you do
another operation to show
something else,
and there's a self and an argument, for
example, unlike functions,
the first argument, when
you write it here, is ignored. If you
notice here, variable, here it's self
variable, but here there's only one
argument. It's because the self is self-
ignored; it's skipped.  The "self" comes from
the second one onwards.
If you have any questions about this,
feel free to ask, because the rest
of what's in this PowerPoint presentation
above is a bit more
complex and deals with
inheritance concepts. A class can be a
subclass, for example,
[Music].
We are all people here, but a
person can be a student. So, a
student is a person, but they have characteristics specific
to a student.
A student has everything a
person has, and they also have
special things about students.
A person has a first
name, a last name, and an age. A
student also has a first name, last name,
and age. But they also
have, for example, a degree,
a certain number of years in their degree program, etc. I wo
n't go into detail about this.
But there will
also be
a file uploaded above that will have a class
that you can view,
work with, and study.
The important thing to take away from
this is how to work with functions, how to
create and call functions, how to return
an object, a result of a function,
and
how to create a class and work with
its attributes and methods. If you have
any questions,
we'll stop recording.